
# Major Studio 1

This repository contains my assignments for the <b>Major Studio 1</b> course at Parsons School of Design's <a href="https://www.newschool.edu/parsons/ms-data-visualization/">MS in Data Visualization</a>.

## Lab 01: Quantitative Data

<i><b>Learning Goals:</b> This segment of the course examines the fundamentals of quantitative data. Students will gain an
understanding of how data is gathered, the databases and other formats by which it can be stored,
the APIs by which it can be accessed, and how it may need to be “cleaned” before use. Design
exercises will use web-based libraries (such as D3, R or Processing) to create visualizations of sample
data sets. Through the exercise, students will learn how to determine meaningful patterns along with
best practices for visualizing them. Students will be given a data set to design static visualizations for
an intended audience. Through the exercise, students will explore the most effective way to
communicate the information. Group discussion and critique of the work will highlight best practices. </i>

## Lab 02: Qualitative Data
<i><b>Learning Goals:</b>The second segment of the course will introduce the concept of qualitative data and how it can be
represented. Students will explore manually-created design alternatives to sample data sets and
examine how those solutions effectively communicate the content, as well as present a narrative
context for the recipient. Students will be given a data set and will design a static visualization of the
content for a proposed intended audience. Through the exercise, students will explore the most
effective way to communicate the information. Group discussion and critique of the work will
examine best practices.</i>


## Lab 03: Dynamics, Interactivity and Narrative
<i><b>Learning Goals:</b>This segment of the course will introduce the design elements of dynamics and interactivity.
Students will gain an understanding of how these elements can be used to further communicate
meaning within data sets. Design exercises will introduce additional web-based tools to incorporate
dynamics and interactivity into new design explorations. Special emphasis will be placed on the
narrative that is generated by the user’s active exploration of the data, how their understanding of
the data is enhanced, and how the designer can effectively guide that journey. At the instructor’s
discretion, students may explore how crowdsourcing can be used to generate or filter the data.
Students will choose a data set in coordination with the instructor and design a dynamic or
interactive visualization of the content for an intended audience. Through the exercise, students will
explore the most effective way to animate the information. Group discussion and critique of the
design solutions will highlight best practices.</i>
